# Hawser

[Hawser](https://github.com/Finsys/hawser) is a remote Docker agent for
[Dockhand](https://github.com/Finsys/dockhand).

Here, it is used in standard mode (for now).

## Preparation

Because Hawser requires open port on a VPS, it is important to use every security measure possible
to limit unwanted access.

### Token

Firstly, a token generated by Dockhand is used. It is passed as environment variable to Hawser and
entered in UI in Dockhand instance.

### TLS

For secure connection with HTTPs, a TLS certificate is required. Here, a self-signed CA is used,
created by the following steps.

#### 1. Create a CA.

Firstly, a base private key has to be generated:

```sh
openssl genrsa -out ca.key 4096
```

... and then used to create a self-signed CA cert:

```sh
openssl req -new -x509 -days 3650 -key ca.key -out ca.crt -subj "/CN=<some_CA_name>/O=<some_org>"
```

Replace above `<some_CA_name>` and `<some_org>` with any string. `<some_org>` replacement will have
to be used later as well.

#### 2. Create server certificate for Hawser instance.

Starting with creation of a private key:

```sh
openssl genrsa -out hawser.key 4096
```

Then, a certificate request file is needed:

```sh
openssl req -new -key hawser.key -out hawser.csr -subj "/CN=<vps_ip_or_domain>/O=<some_org>"
```

Make sure to replace above `<some_org>` with the same string as when generating a CA cert.
`<vps_ip_or_domain>` is best to be replaced with actual public IP address or domain pointing to the
host running this Hawser container.

For additional protection, an extension file should be created that will lock the cert to specific
IP address (or domain, if used).

```sh
cat > hawser.ext << EOF
subjectAltName = <vps_ip_or_domain>
EOF
```

If there's a mismatch, Dockhand won't be able to authenticate Hawser as the correct peer and HTTPs
connection will be refused.

Finally, sign the certificate:

```sh
openssl x509 -req -days 3650 -in hawser.csr -CA ca.crt -CAkey ca.key -CAcreateserial -out hawser.crt -extfile hawser.ext
```

Files `hawser.crt` and `hawser.key` are to be mounted into Hawser container and specified in
environment variables.

`ca.crt` is supposed to be pasted in Dockhand UI when creating a new environment. It can be removed
from the VPS.
